[CHIME MUSIC]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: Hello.
My name's Gregg Braden.
And I'd like to welcome you
to this all-new presentation
of "The Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."
For 3,000 years, sages,
mystics, and prophets
have revered a single,
mysterious document
as the manual that holds the
consequences and the outcome
for every possible
choice that we could ever
make in our lives.
In this episode, we'll
marry the best science
of the modern world with
the secret of this manual
to reveal the unthinkable,
a time map that
holds the details of every
major event that has occurred
in the last 3,000 years, as
well as the consequences that
are yet to come.
The assassination of Israeli
prime minister Yitzhak Rabin
is a perfect example
of what I mean here.
Israeli Prime
Minister Yitzhak Rabin
was assassinated
by a lone gunman
during a public appearance
on November 5, 1995.
The motive for his
killing is believed
to have been his willingness
to compromise so many policies
in an effort to bring
a long-awaited peace
to the Middle East.
Well, the date of his
assassination, the time,
the location, and even
the name of the man
that assassinated him were
discovered in an ancient code,
in a book that was
written over 3,000 years
before the assassination
ever happened.
Now interestingly, Rabin
was warned that his death
was coded into this document.
And when he discovered
the source of the code,
he chose to go forward
in spite of the warning
with a public appearance.
The details of
Rabin's assassination
are part of a mystery that
is known as the Torah code,
or more commonly,
the Bible code.
And when we ask the question,
what is the Bible code,
I know many people
have heard about it.
Many people have heard
that it is a hoax.
There have been YouTube
videos and research projects
that tried to discount
this code that we find
within this singular document.
So I want to be
very clear with you.
I've done my own research.
And I would not be
sharing this with you
if I did not believe from
my own personal research
that everything I'm
going to share with you
is absolutely accurate.
I'm not saying
that we understand
100% this mystery,
how it has occurred,
or where it comes from.
But I want to say
to you that what
I'm going to share
with you is not a hoax.
And I think when you see the
evidence, you'll agree with me.
So when we ask, what
is the Bible code,
a really deceptively
simple answer
was offered by the
18th-century scholar that was
known as the Genius of Vilna.
In his own words, here's
what that scholar said.
And this is a quote.
He said, "The rule is, that
all that was, all that is,
and all that will be
until the end of time
is included in the Torah from
the first word to the last."
And that's the end of the quote.
Well, in my experience,
my research,
I want to tell you that
every query that has ever
been made into the
mystery of this code
has produced results that are
statistically significant.
They're not random.
They're not accidental.
And this even goes to the name
of every human who has ever
been entered into this code.
Your name is in the
Torah code, my name
is in the Torah code,
the details of your life,
the details of my life.
And when you say,
how can that be,
that's why I wanted to
share this episode with you.
Because the Torah
code is believed now
to be a manual for the
quantum possibilities
that are available
within the Divine Matrix.
So we're coming
back to this idea
that we're living
within this field.
And within this field,
events are unfolding.
They are following patterns.
They are following cycles.
And now it's possible
that we actually
have a manual that
helps us to understand
how to interpret those
cycles, the consequences
of our choices.
That's what I want to
show you right now.
One year before
Rabin's assassination,
a scientific paper was
released-- the year 1994--
in the journal
"Statistical Science."
And it described this Bible
code for the first time
in scientific terms.
Now the paper was written
by two mathematicians,
Eliyahu Rips was the primary
author, and Doron Witztum.
The title is very interesting.
And it's one of the reasons
that I think the paper was not
widely accepted
in common circles,
because the title makes
it sound very complex.
The title was called,
"Equidistant Letter Sequences
in the Book of Genesis."
And this paper described
the first experiment using
computers to detect the code.
So let me just share with
you why that's important.
Because for at
least 1,000 years,
Torah scholars,
biblical scholars,
have suspected that there were
hidden codes within the Torah.
And I'm going to talk about
precisely what the Torah is
in just a moment.
But these scholars suspected
that this code was there.
They didn't have
computers 1,000 years ago.
So to find these codes, they
were doing everything by hand.
They were manually looking
for these relationships.
And it's said that some of
them actually went crazy.
They actually went insane
with the complexity of what
it was they were trying to do.
Well, it was only in 1994.
And you think back in
time, the computers
that we take for
granted today, they
haven't been around forever.
And in 1994, some of the kinds
of software we deal with today
were just in their infancy.
Now having worked in the
industry developing code
to look for patterns, I can
attest to this firsthand.
When I was in the industry
in the 1980s, 1990s,
pattern recognition software
is what we were developing.
And that pattern
recognition software
was running on computers that
are very, very different.
We didn't have our
Macintosh laptops
that so many people use today.
And we didn't have the
IBM laptops and the very
compact models running at
tremendously high speeds
with so much storage
that we see today.
So I'm going to invite
you to keep this in mind
as I describe what was
happening in the 1994 study.
So in 1994, the
paper was released.
The purpose of the paper was
to describe an experiment that
had been run.
And the experiment
was to determine
if the names of 32
very famous rabbis
could be identified using
algorithms in the Bible code.
Well, without going into all the
technical details right here,
I'm just going to tell you,
the results were astounding.
They were more than successful.
They exceeded all
the expectations.
Not only were the names
of those 32 scholars
there, but there was
additional information
that was not even queried that
was coming up with their names.
Well, this is where it gets
really, really interesting.
Because that idea, that theory,
was retested a few years later,
1997.
During an unprecedented
experiment--
it lasted 440 hours--
the computers were running
the search algorithms
for 440 hours.
And this time, rather
than the mathematicians
that had developed
the algorithms doing
the work, this
time, the experiment
was run by a former senior
cryptologic mathematician
for the NSA of
the United States.
His name was Harold Gans.
Harold Gans took the original
experiment one step further.
And he began with the
names of 66 famous rabbis.
He tested those names
against themselves.
But he wanted to
see if the dates
and the places of the birth
and the death for each rabbi
would also show up.
Well, once again, at the
end of this experiment,
the information that was
revealed by the codes
exceeded even Harold
Gans' expectations.
Not only did the names come up,
the exact dates of the birth,
the exact dates of the
death, and even the cities
where they were born and the
cities where the rabbis died--
even if they were different--
they showed up in this study.
Well, Harold Gans wrote a paper.
In his conclusion,
he stated that this
is statistically more
than significant,
that this is no accident.
There is a code that is
encoded within the Torah,
within the first five
books of the Hebrew Bible.
And it's encoded in a way
that exists nowhere else.
Well, since the time
of these experiments,
once the researchers
discovered how accurate
these codes were,
all of a sudden,
they began to query everything.
And everything that has ever
been queried in the code
has revealed specifics.
Just for example, World War II--
when World War II was
queried in the Torah code,
it actually spells out
the words "World War II."
It spells out the
words "final solution."
The code gives the
name of the leaders
who are present at the time--
Roosevelt, Stalin,
Hitler, Churchill.
It gives the exact names of the
countries that were involved--
England, Germany,
France, Russia, Japan,
the United States.
It even gives the words "atomic
Holocaust" and the year 1945.
Now one of the questions that
people have asked me when I do
lectures on this topic is, could
this information be random?
Could it be encoded
in other documents?
And what I want to
say to you, to date,
other texts have been
tested, including
"Webster's Dictionary,"
including novels, huge novels,
like the book "War and
Peace," the book "Moby Dick."
And in all of these
other texts, the codes
do not work the way
they do in the Torah.
There is something about the
way the Torah is put together,
something about the way
that it is arranged.
And that something
is the mystery
that we're going to
explore right now.
The precise results are only
possible with the Torah.
And in mathematics--
this is so interesting
to me-- the most stringent
standard for a statistical odd
to be significant is one
in 1,000 in mathematics,
typically.
The Torah code odds, the odds
of these things showing up
in the Torah the way they
do, are one in 100,000.
So we can see, statistically,
there's something happening
here that cannot be explained
by conventional thinking,
conventional physics,
conventional mathematics,
at least as we know it today.
The information
coded into the Torah
appears to follow the rule
of mathematician Heisenberg.
And he created something
called Heisenberg's uncertainty
principle.
And that principle is
summarized by Stephen Hawking.
And I want to share
with you, in a very
single, specific sentence,
what Hawking said.
Hawking said, and this is
a quote, "Quantum mechanics
does not predict a
single definite result
for an observation.
Instead, it predicts a number
of different possible outcomes
and then tells us how likely
each of these outcomes is,"
end of quote.
This appears to be the way
that the Bible code works.
It does not predict what will
happen when we query the Bible
code in a very specific manner.
It gives us the consequences
that are likely,
the consequences
that are possible.
And in this way, it is suspected
that this is a quantum code.
So I'm going to give you
some specific examples of how
this works.
But I want to begin
with the very beginning.
I'm going to go back to the
beginning of this conversation.
And I want to talk to
you about the Torah.
Just what is the Torah?
Why does it work the
way that it works?
Well, as I mentioned
earlier, the Torah
represents the first five
books of the Hebrew Bible--
Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus,
Numbers and Deuteronomy--
that happen to be the first
five books of the Old Testament
in the Christian Bible as well.
There's something very different
about these first five books.
The truth is, we don't really
know where they came from.
There's legend.
There's history.
There's speculation.
We're told that the book
containing the five books
was received on Mount Sinai
in Egypt as a single document.
And the ancient texts suggest
that it was a single document
that had no
punctuation, no spaces
between the words, a
single continuous output
of information.
And that's going to be
key in just a moment.
So when we talk about the
Torah, what we're talking about
are these first five
books of the Hebrew
Bible and the Christian Bible.
We're not talking about
the Bible in its entirety.
So I want to be very
clear about that.
Second thing that I
want to share with you--
I have studied, as an amateur,
linguistics all of my life.
And that's going
to become apparent
in the next episode
of this series--
the power of information being
transmitted as alphabets,
as language, and what
that means to our lives,
what it means to our bodies,
what it means to our brains.
Well, one of the fascinating
things that I discovered early
on about alphabets is this.
Every single alphabet known
to exist on this Earth
today, ancient and modern,
every letter of the alphabet
has always had a
mysterious number
associated with the letter.
We don't know for sure where
those numbers came from.
The numbers are stable.
Once those numbers were
assigned some time in antiquity,
they've never changed.
Every letter of every alphabet
has a numeric representation
for that letter.
Now some people say,
well, now you're
talking about numerology.
I want to be very
clear about this.
The science of numerology
was spelled out
in the second century
as 32 rabbinical rules
for how these numbers
may and may not be used.
So this is the science that
is called gematria or gematria
in the Hebrew language.
Numerology is a
subset of gematria.
And numerology, the
rules are very loose,
and they are malleable.
The rules for the
gematria are very strict.
They are very specific.
They're very stringent.
So I want to be very clear about
what we're talking about here.
And I'm saying this because
the alphabet of the Torah
is the Hebrew
alphabet, primarily,
in the original versions.
And every one of the letters
in the Hebrew alphabet
has always had a
mysterious number
associated with that letter.
So when we talk
about the Bible code,
the way this Bible
code is created
is that each of
those Hebrew letters
are converted into the numeric
equivalent for the letter.
So instead of seeing a bunch
of letters on the page, now
you're seeing a bunch
of numbers on the page.
Once that is done, all of
the spaces are taken out,
all of the punctuation, just the
way it was believed the Torah
was delivered to the Earth
at some point in antiquity,
3,000 years ago.
So now you're looking at a
continuous stream of numbers
creating an array or a matrix
that the computer can now
search and query
in different ways.
We're looking at a
matrix of 304,805 numbers
exactly, specifically, 304,805.
This is the number of letters
that are in the Torah.
And one of the
things that really
helps to anchor our
trust in this document
is that the Torah today
has this number of letters.
And when we go back into
the most ancient versions
of the Torah, it has the
same number of letters.
It's a very, very
stable document.
Typically, texts such
as this are translated.
And they lose information,
gain information.
They change over time.
The Torah is a very,
very stable document.
This is one of the reasons when
a rabbi is tasked with creating
a new copy of the Torah, it's
said that if even one letter
is changed, that that one
letter could change the outcome
and held the fate
for the entire world.
So if they got to the
fourth book in this document
and a mistake was
made, they would
have to destroy that
part of the document
and start over to preserve
the integrity of the Torah.
That's important for what it is
that we're talking about now.
So this matrix of
304,805 letters,
it is arranged into a matrix.
But it's called
a dynamic matrix,
because it is allowed the
change of 64 rows, 4,772
numbers in each row.
This is the way it begins.
And as the queries
begin, the queries
determine where
that matrix aligns.
So the number of numbers in a
row and the number of columns
can change.
It's a dynamic matrix
based upon the query that
is being offered.
Once the matrix is
established, then the queries
are created using
the information
that the scientific paper I
mentioned earlier talked about.
They're using what are
called Equidistant Letter
Searches, or ELS searches.
So let me talk to you
just briefly about what
an ELS search is all about.
An ELS search is commonly
called a skip code.
And that's a much easier
term to really embrace.
It means that we begin with
a particular letter somewhere
in the Torah, and we
determine how many letters
we will go through
before we expect
to find another significant
letter in that code.
It identifies what
letter in the matrix
will determine
this code sequence.
Let me give you an example
to help explain this.
Let's begin with a skip code
of 50 in the Book of Genesis--
in the Book of Genesis,
a skip code of 50.
The way we would apply
a skip code of 50
in the Book of Genesis
is very simple.
We begin with the very first
letter in the Book of Genesis.
And this is in the Hebrew code.
Now I want to be specific.
This code only works
with the Hebrew letters.
If you try to translate this
into English, it doesn't work.
The queries are only in Hebrew.
So if you're going to
query the Bible code,
you have to understand how
to query it in the language
that it was written in,
in the Hebrew language.
So in the Hebrew language,
the Book of Genesis,
a skip code of
50, we would begin
with the very first
letter of the code,
very first letter of the book.
And we would count
50 letters, or now
that the letters
have been converted
into numbers, 50 numbers over.
And when we do that, the
very first letter that we see
is the letter T. So 50 letters
in from the very first letter
of the book of Genesis
is the letter T.
When we go 50 more letters,
the next letter that we find
is the letter O.
When we go 50 more,
the next letter that we
find is the letter R.
The next letter is the letter
H. In the Hebrew language,
vowels are omitted.
So what we're seeing right
now, a skip code of 50
could be considered a primer.
It tells us of how
this code works.
And it tells us that a skip
code of 50 in the Torah
produces the word Torah.
So this is one of
the first things
that biblical scholars
found a long time ago.
And based on this,
they said, what happens
if we try other skip zip codes?
What happens if we allow
the computer to use
those skips codes for us?
The results of this
work were made popular
in the mainstream
in the year 1997.
They were released
as a book that
was called "The Bible Code,"
the author, a journalist.
His name was Michael Drosnin.
So maybe you read the book, the
first book, "The Bible Code."
And there were many subsequent
books that came later.
So I mentioned earlier
that specific details
of the assassination for Yitzhak
Rabin were in the Torah code,
in the Bible code.
Now I want to give
you an example
of exactly where I mean.
If you look on your screen, you
can see how this code works.
What you're seeing is a matrix
of a part of the Torah codes.
And when the algorithms
are given the instructions
to search in the code, they can
search vertically in columns,
they can search
horizontally in rows,
and they can search diagonally.
And you'll see examples
of each of these.
What the mathematicians said
is that if we find words that
are related to one
another within what
is called a statistically
significant distance--
so they have
calculations to tell us
if the distance from
one word to another
is statistically significant.
If it's not-- if in
one part of the code,
you find Yitzhak Rabin,
and 500 pages later,
you find the date of
his assassination--
that would not be called
statistically significant.
But what you're
seeing on the screen
is where these words
actually intersect.
So what you're seeing
is a place in the code
where the name "Yitzhak
Rabin" is actually
spelled out vertically.
And you see that, horizontally,
the phrase "assassin
who will assassinate"--
it's very specific--
spelled out horizontally.
And it intersects
the name of the man
that this information
is directed to.
Well, the information goes
beyond just saying "assassin
who will assassinate."
The time of day is
encoded in the Torah code.
The name of the assassin--
his name was Amir--
Amir is encoded in this.
The street upon which the
assassination occurred,
it's all encoded
in this Torah code.
And Yitzhak Rabin,
when he was told
that the information
of his death
was encoded in the
Torah, what he said is,
"If it's in the Bible,
then it is meant to be.
And I'm going to go forward with
my plans as originally made."
He did.
And the outcome was what
we now know as history.
Now one of the questions
that has come up
is, what if Yitzhak Rabin
had heeded the warning?
What if he had not made the
public display on the day
that he did?
What would the Bible
code tell us about that?
Well, when that
query was entered,
very interestingly, it
still came up with his name.
It still came up
with "assassination"
across the name.
And off to the side, it said
"assassination delayed"--
"assassination delayed."
Somehow, the Bible code
knew that it would not
happen precisely on that day.
Now I'm going to give you
some other examples of how
this works.
But the point here
is this information
is encoded in a
document that was
given to the people of
the Earth 3,000 years ago.
How could this be possible?
How is it possible to
encode so many potentials
of so many outcomes in
such a precise way for all
of the people of the world?
Now I'm going to
re-emphasize this.
Every name that has ever
been entered is in the code.
And the details, my details--
where I lived, who
my parents were,
how old I was when
my family split up--
all of this information, all
this is in the code for me,
and it is for you as well.
There are other examples of
what we find in the code.
The time and the date
for the atomic detonation
of Hiroshima-- you're seeing
this on the screen right now--
the exact date, 1945, the
words "atomic holocaust."
Look at how they cross.
The assassination of
President John F. Kennedy--
it's in the code.
And this is an example of
a little bit of a diagonal.
You can see the word
"Dallas" in the diagonal.
And you see his name
as the vertical.
And you actually see
the words "to die."
It says "to die," referencing
both of these things together.
September 11 that I spoke about
a couple of episodes earlier--
it's in the Bible code.
I'm not surprised, because this
is such a significant event.
But I want you to
see on the screen.
Look on your screen, and you
can see how it's encoded.
The word "twin
towers" is vertical.
What you see is the words
"knocked down" twice
and the word "airplane,"
all within statistically
significant relationships
to what we're seeing here.
Now one of the things that
the scholars believe--
the mathematicians--
they believe
that, although
they're onto the code,
they are not completely
onto the code,
that they haven't
completely solved it.
Because what we're
looking at are
fragments or bits and pieces.
But it may be because
that is the way
that this code was designed.
It's not designed to
predict the future.
It is designed to tell us the
consequences of our choices.
Even the election of President
Obama is in the Torah codes.
So there's a very famous image
of Obama actually looking
at the great Isaiah scroll.
This is the most complete
of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
It is completely unrolled on
the replica of a large Torah
vertically in the Shrine
of the Book Museum.
And Obama is looking.
And it's believed
that he was looking
to see where his name and
the details for his election
and his presidency
and the outcome
were contained in
the Torah codes.
So this is so fascinating
to me, because when
we look at the words
themselves, the words
tell a story in a language
that we recognize.
Underlying that
story, the mathematics
are telling another
story on a deeper level.
That is the mystery
of the Bible code.
Now I want to be
very clear once again
that the code doesn't tell
us what is going to happen.
It talks about potentials.
And one of the potentials--
and this is, I think,
the most powerful, powerful
thing we can know about
the Torah codes, about
the Bible codes--
is that whenever the Bible code
shows something frightening
that is possible, that is
potential in our world,
next to that
frightening possibility,
there is always a phrase
that gives us hope.
And the phrase is this.
When we find the most
frightening examples
of atomic holocaust
or war or pandemic
or whatever it is,
the Bible code always
comes up with the phrase
"Will you change it?"
This 3,000-year-old code
is not only telling us what
the consequences
may be for a choice.
It's telling us that
we have the opportunity
to change that outcome.
"Will you change it?"
So beautiful.
So powerful.
The last example
of the Bible code
that I want to share
with you was one
that impressed me so deeply.
And you're seeing it on
your screen right now.
It is the part of the code
that says that the code itself
was sealed until what is
called "the end of time."
Now the end of time,
many people interpret it
as the end of the world.
But that's certainly not how
the Mayans interpreted it.
It's not how mathematicians
interpret it.
And if you understand
cycles, it's
not what the cycles
are telling us.
Because the end of one
cycle, by definition,
is always the
beginning of the next.
It's the beginning of what
comes next, of the new.
We are living the close
of a great cycle of time,
a 5,125-year cycle,
and by definition,
the beginning of a new cycle.
We are living the end of time.
And it's only now,
at the end of time,
when our computers
and the mathematics
have come together
in a way that allows
us to unlock the mystery of this
code and to reap its benefits.
The code is sealed
until the end of time.
And that's what we're
seeing in the code
that you're seeing right now.
And the word "computer"
is right next to it.
So once again, the
Torah code is telling us
about what's possible
in our lives.
If time is actually a program
running under the operating
system of the Divine
Matrix, as we expressed
in the couple of episodes
prior to this one, then
the Torah code--
the Bible code that we
have just explored--
can be thought of as
the manual that tells us
what is happening within time.
The Torah codes are the
manual for the possibilities
within time.
So once again, we've
covered a tremendous amount
of information in this episode.
To bring this all
together, the beauty
of understanding
the Torah code is
that the Torah code is
the map of possibilities
within the program of time,
running under the Divine
Matrix.
We are part of that
program of time.
And we are subject to the
rules and the laws of time
until we understand them.
And then we also understand
that our biology gives us
the way to hack time.
We can short-circuit
the processes.
these cycles
when it comes to the
healing of our bodies,
for example, or the
peace between nations.
And all of this is
possible because we are now
unlocking the mystery, and
we're telling a new human story.
And it's a story of us and our
relationship to the matrix that
underlies all reality.
Whether we're looking at
the big events of the world
or the details of our
everyday lives, everything
that we experience, it's
happening within possibilities
already coded into the
ancient map of time,
into the Bible code.
The scientific key to
choosing our possibilities
was preserved in
some of the most
ancient and indigenous
languages of the past.
In the next episode,
we'll discover
that key, how it works, and
what it means in our lives.
So I want to thank you
for joining me today
for this episode.
And be sure to tune in for our
next all-new episode of "The
Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]